ENT-10976: Consolidated and improved glossary (#3141)
cfengine/documentation: overview/glossary.markdown

#### Agent

A program that runs independently and automatically to carry out a task (think software robot).
In CFEngine, the agent is called `cf-agent` and is responsible for making changes to computers.

> (Originally, the word *robot*, meaning "servile worker," was coined for the influential Czech writer Karel Čapek's play R.U.R by his brother.

Reviewer: Hey! Don't remove this! :heart: :czech_republic:

In CFEngine, the agent is called `cf-agent` and is responsible for making changes to computers.

Historically, all the hosts in the infrastructure which are not hubs / policy servers have been referred to as agents.
The preferred terms to distinguish between the different roles are hub and client.
See CFEngine roles.

#### Body

A promise body is the description of exactly what is promised (as opposed to what/who is making the promise).
The term `body` is used in the CFEngine syntax to mean a small template that can be used to contribute as part of a larger promise body.

#### Bootstrap

After installing the CFEngine package, the software does not automatically start running.
It is missing some information, most notably where it should be fetching policy from.
In order to start CFEngine, you run the bootstrap command on all hosts in the infrastructure, with the IP address of the hub as an argument:

```console
cf-agent --bootstrap <hub IP>
```

After running this command, CFEngine knows where (which IP address) to use when fetching policy.
It can also infer its CFEngine role (hubs fetch policy from themselves, while clients fetch policy from a hub).

> Having this information, it can start the various components in the background, causing policy to be fetched, enforced, and reported on regularly, every 5 minutes by default.

Author: ```suggestion
Having this information, CFEngine can start the various components in the background, ensuring that policy is fetched, enforced, and reported regularly, every 5 minutes by default.
```

#### Bundle

In CFEngine, a bundle refers to a collection of promises that has a name.

#### Contend driven policy (CDP)

A way of simplifying the way users provide information to CFEngine about policy by hiding the overhead of policy coding.
A CDP is a set of promises designed to solve a particular task in a standard way.
Users provide only a little data in the form of a simple spreadsheet of data in a table.

#### CFEngine

CFEngine comes from a contraction of _ConFiguration Engine_ and is maintained by Northern.tech (previously the CFEngine company).

#### CFEngine 3.x

> Major version 3 of the CFEngine software, started in 2008 and going up to the present day.
> This comes in several editions, both Open Source and Commercial.

Author: ```suggestion
Major version 3 of the CFEngine software was initiated in 2008 and is maintained to the present day.
It comes in both Enterprise and Open Source Community editions.
```

In CFEngine, the agent is called `cf-agent` and is responsible for making changes to computers.

Historically, all the hosts in the infrastructure which are not hubs / policy servers have been referred to as agents.
The preferred terms to distinguish between the different roles are hub and client.
See CFEngine roles.

#### Body

A promise body is the description of exactly what is promised (as opposed to what/who is making the promise).
The term `body` is used in the CFEngine syntax to mean a small template that can be used to contribute as part of a larger promise body.

#### Bootstrap

After installing the CFEngine package, the software does not automatically start running.
It is missing some information, most notably where it should be fetching policy from.
In order to start CFEngine, you run the bootstrap command on all hosts in the infrastructure, with the IP address of the hub as an argument:

```console
cf-agent --bootstrap <hub IP>
```

After running this command, CFEngine knows where (which IP address) to use when fetching policy.
It can also infer its CFEngine role (hubs fetch policy from themselves, while clients fetch policy from a hub).

> Having this information, it can start the various components in the background, causing policy to be fetched, enforced, and reported on regularly, every 5 minutes by default.

Author: The received part is not appropriate here (it makes it sound like it was received over the network). The rest of the change is good so I will edit it.

#### Bundle

In CFEngine, a bundle refers to a collection of promises that has a name.

#### Contend driven policy (CDP)

A way of simplifying the way users provide information to CFEngine about policy by hiding the overhead of policy coding.
A CDP is a set of promises that is designed to solve a particular task in a standard way.
Users provide only a little data in the form of a simple spreadsheet of data in a table.

#### CFEngine

CFEngine comes from a contraction of _ConFiguration Engine_.
The CFEngine software is maintained by Northern.tech (previously the CFEngine company).

#### CFEngine 3.x

Major version 3 of the CFEngine software, started in 2008 and going up to the present day.
This comes in several editions, both Open Source and Commercial.

#### CFEngine Community

> Free and Open Source edition of the CFEngine software, published under the GPL3 license, and optionally under the COSL license.

Author: Removing license from the first one and not the second one seems inconsistent. Mentioning license can help users know what we are referring to.

#### CFEngine Enterprise

Refers to commercial (paid) editions of the CFEngine software.

#### CFEngine Nova

An older name for CFEngine Enterprise, which is no longer used.
See CFEngine Enterprise.

#### CFEngine role

As far as CFEngine is concerned, all hosts in your infrastructure can be thought of as having one of two possible roles.
The CFEngine role describes how a specific host interacts with other installations of CFEngine on other hosts.

The hub is the centralized place which serves policy and collects reports.
When starting out / for smaller infrastructures, it is common to have just 1 hub.
For larger / more complex infrastructures, multiple hubs are common.

> Due to the multiple purposes this host serves, it is sometimes referred to as the policy server or the report collector, however _hub_ is the preferred term.

Author: Not an improvement, IMO.

Clients are all the other hosts which fetch policy from the hub and deliver reporting data back.
In a typical setup, all hosts which are not hubs are considered clients.

> Historically, clients were sometimes referred to as agents, however this can be confusing, as agent also refers to the software component `cf-agent` which is installed on all hosts, not just the clients.

Author: Same here.

> Hub and client are the preferred terms when talking about the role a host performs, and which type of package to install on it.

Author: IMO, this is less correct than before, there's many packages, with roughly 2 types (hub and client), here I am talking about which _type of package_, not which package specifically.

#### Agent

A piece of software that runs independently and automatically to carry out a task (think software robot).

> In CFEngine, the agent is called `cf-agent` and is responsible for making changes to computers.

Reviewer 2: We have multiple agents, cf-agent is the most often referred to.
```suggestion
In CFEngine, the agent `cf-agent` is responsible for making changes to computers.
```

Historically, all the hosts in the infrastructure which are not hubs / policy servers have been referred to as agents.

> (And the software you install on them agent packages, or agent only packages).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I think that reads strangely.

Author: Okay, removed.

The preferred terms to distinguish between the different roles are hub and client.
See CFEngine roles.

#### Body

A promise body is the description of exactly what is promised (as opposed to what/who is making the promise).
The term `body` is used in the CFEngine syntax to mean a small template that can be used to contribute as part of a larger promise body.

#### Bootstrap

After installing the CFEngine package, the software does not automatically start running.
It is missing some information, most notably where it should be fetching policy from.
In order to start CFEngine, you run the bootstrap command on all hosts in the infrastructure, with the IP address of the hub as an argument:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

Author: Okay.

We split them into 2 roles (categories) - hubs and clients.

#### Hub

The term hub means the center of a wheel, from which multiple spokes emerge.

In CFEngine, the hub is the host responsible for collecting reports from hosts and serving them policy.
In addition to the components installed on other CFEngine hosts (clients), the hub runs a database (PostgreSQL), a web server (Apache) and a few additional CFEngine components, most notably `cf-hub`, which connects to hosts and retrieves their reporting data.

Due to the multiple purposes this host serves, it is sometimes referred to as the policy server, the reporting hub, or the report collector.
In typical CFEngine Enterprise setups, all hubs are policy servers, and all policy servers are hubs, so the distinction is not so important.
In general, hub is the preferred term to describe the role of what this host does, and which package to install on it.

See CFEngine role.

#### Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP)

A kind of _phone book_ service providing information about persons and computers in an organization.

#### Libraries

> A library generally refers to collection of standardized CFEngine code that can be reused in different scenarios and environments.
> This might be bundles of promises, or reusable body-parts.

Author: ```suggestion
A library generally refers to a collection of standardized CFEngine code that can be reused in different scenarios and environments.
This might be reusable bundles of promises, or bodies.
```

In CFEngine, we use the word client to describe all of the hosts which are not hubs.
A CFEngine hub runs a policy server, which all clients connect to in order to fetch policy.

Historically, the term agent has sometimes been used for this same meaning.
However, agent also refers to the agent component (the `cf-agent` binary), and thus, when discussing the role of a CFEngine host, _client_ is the preferred term for these hosts which are not hubs, and which packages to install on them.

#### Client initiated reporting

A mode where you change the configuration so that the hub does not initiate connections to client hosts to fetch reports.
Instead, the clients will establish a connection, and leave it open, until the hub is ready to use it to query for reporting data.
Sometimes referred to as call collect.

#### Configuration management database (CMDB)

A term coined as part of the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) as an outgrowth of an inventory database.

#### Code branch

The development of software is a branching process.
At certain times, the software code splits into different versions following different paths.
Each path needs to be maintained separately for a while.

> This often happens when a release is made, because one wants to freeze the development of a public release (allowing nevertheless for some minor bugfixes), while continuing to add features to a branch leading to future versions.

Author: only and nevertheless are quite different, but I guess both can work here.

#### Components

Standalone applications include `cf-agent`, `cf-promises`, `cf-runagent`, `cf-know`, `cf-report`, `cf-hub`

Daemons include `cf-execd`, `cf-monitord`, and `cf-serverd`

#### COSL license

The Commercial Open Source License used for the CFEngine.

#### Datatypes

CFEngine's data types describe what a variable can contain.
A variable can't be assigned a different type once it's been set.
The commonly used data types are `string`, `slist` (string list), `int`, `real`, and `data`.

#### Diff

A `diff` is a report (originally that generated by the UNIX diff command) that details the differences between two files.
The term is often used as slang meaning a file comparison.

#### Enterprise API

The Enterprise API is a JSON HTTP REST API, allowing users to access CFEngine's functionality and reporting data programmatically.

> It can be used to generate reports, query data, create alerts, manage users, etc.

Author: Is this grammarly talking or you? :)

I am assuming grammarly says it's unclear because the previous sentence has 2 things the "it" could refer to (the API or CFEngine).

In this case I don't think it's an issue, and the suggested change hurts the reading flow.

In practice, _host_ is a synonym for _computer_.

In CFEngine, all machines (physical or virtual) which have an installation of CFEngine are considered _hosts_.
We split them into 2 roles (categories) - hubs and clients.

#### Hub

The term hub means the center of a wheel, from which multiple spokes emerge.

In CFEngine, the hub is the host responsible for collecting reports from hosts and serving them policy.
In addition to the components installed on other CFEngine hosts (clients), the hub runs a database (PostgreSQL), a web server (Apache) and a few additional CFEngine components, most notably `cf-hub` which connects to hosts and retrieves their reporting data.

Due to the multiple purposes this host serves, it is sometimes referred to as the policy server, the reporting hub, or the report collector.
In typical CFEngine Enterprise setups, all hubs are policy servers and all policy servers are hubs, so the distinction is not so important.
In general, hub is the preferred term to describe the role of what this host does, and which package to install on it.

See CFEngine role.

#### Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP)

> A kind of _phone book_ service providing information about persons and computers in an organization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A kind of _phone book_ service that provides information about persons and computers in an organization.
```

Author: I think the previous reads better.

#### Libraries

> A library generally refers to collection of standardized CFEngine code that can be reused in different scenarios and environments.
> This might be bundles of promises, or reusable body-parts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A library generally refers to a collection of standardized CFEngine code that can be reused in different scenarios and environments.
This might be bundles of promises, or reusable body parts.
```

Author: I'll edit this one, maybe let's not use the word body parts at all 💀 😂

#### Logs

> Log files tell you some historic, usually timestamped, information about events which happened in the past.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Log files tell you some historical, usually timestamped, information about events that happened in the past.
```

In CFEngine, there are a few notable log files:

* `/var/logs/CFEngineInstall.log` - Information about the installation, especially useful if installing the package failed.

> * `/var/cfengine/outputs/` - Output logs of previous scheduled agent runs (if any).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `/var/cfengine/outputs/` - Output logs of previously scheduled agent runs (if any).
```

Author: This one is wrong, the 2 sentences have different meanings. We are talking about the previous agent runs, which were scheduled, not the agent runs which were previously scheduled.

* `/var/cfengine/httpd/logs/error_log` - Apache errors (Mission Portal / API)

#### Mission Portal (MP)

> The name given to the user interface used in commercial CFEngine editions,
> where all reports and progress summaries are kept.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Name of the user interface used in commercial CFEngine editions, where all reports and progress summaries are kept.
```

#### Normal ordering

In CFEngine, the promises you write in policy files are evaluated according to a predetermined order, not from top to bottom of your policy file.

#### Packages

Software binaries or executable files.
The CFEngine company compiles and tests
software into packages suitable for different platforms.

#### PCI compliance

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a set of requirements designed to ensure that ALL companies that process, store or transmit credit card information maintain a secure environment.

#### Platforms

This usually refers to an operating system type, e.g. Linux (in its many flavours), or Windows, etc.
Platforms are described using short identifiers, e.g. RH5, REL5, SuSE 11, SLES, etc.

#### Policy server

The special server that others consult for the latest policies is called the *policy server*.

Typically the policy server is set by the bootstrapping process.

#### Policy

A policy is a set of intentions about the system, coded as a list of promises.
A policy is not a standard, but the result of specific organizational management decisions.

#### Promise attributes

> As opposed to the promiser string (which is usually the unique identifier of a resource), promise attributes specify the desired specifics for that resource.
> A basic example is that if you want to ensure a file has a specific set of permissions, you would make a promise where the promiser string is the filename, and the desired permissions are specified as attributes.
> 
> Sometimes referred to as promise constraints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes referred to as promise constraints.
As opposed to the promiser string (usually the unique identifier of a resource), promise attributes specify the desired specifics for that resource.
A basic example is that if you want to ensure a file has a specific set of permissions, you would make a promise where the promiser string is the filename and the desired permissions are specified as attributes.
```

Author: No - I think it's better to always put the alternate (deprecated) word at the end, it's not the most important thing.

#### Promise types

Different types of resources you can manage with CFEngine.
Typical examples include files, users, services, packages, etc.
Making promises with these types results in CFEngine checking the state of those resources and making changes on the system if necessary.

There are also promise types which are not traditional resources on a system, but rather just for managing state within the CFEngine binaries, such as variables, classes, meta, etc.

> Setting a class or a variable will not alter the system directly, but makes that information available for further policy and promise types in the same execution.

Author: The full stop does not improve the communication of this concept, IMO.

Appear in front of promises in CFEngine policy, consisting of a class expression followed by two colons.
Class guards are sometimes called context class expressions.

#### Client

In traditional computer networks and software, the client is the program which connects to a server, i.e. the software which initiates the connection in a networked system.
We say that a server is listening for incoming connections, and servers frequently serve thousands or even millions of clients simultaneously.

In CFEngine, we use the word client to describe all of the hosts which are not hubs.
A CFEngine hub runs a policy server, which all clients connect to in order to fetch policy.

Historically, the term agent has sometimes been used for this same meaning.
However, agent also refers to the agent component (the `cf-agent` binary), and thus, when discussing the role of a CFEngine host, _client_ is the preferred term for these hosts which are not hubs, and which packages to install on them.

#### Client initiated reporting

A mode where you change the configuration so that the hub does not initiate connections to client hosts to fetch reports.

> Instead, the clients will establish a connection, and leave it open, until the hub is ready to use it to query for reporting data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, the clients will establish a connection, and leave it open for a period of time, giving the hub opportunity to use it to query for reporting data.
```

Author: I think mine reads easier, the purpose here in the glossary is to try to explain things in a simple way.

#### Code branch

The development of software is a branching process.
At certain times, the software code splits into different versions following different paths.
Each path needs to be maintained separately for a while.
This often happens when a release is made, because one wants to freeze the development of a public release (allowing nevertheless for some minor bugfixes), while continuing to add features to a branch leading to future versions.

#### Components

Standalone applications include `cf-agent`, `cf-promises`, `cf-runagent`, `cf-know`, `cf-report`, `cf-hub`

Daemons include `cf-execd`, `cf-monitord`, and `cf-serverd`

#### COSL license

The Commercial Open Source License used for the CFEngine.

#### Datatypes

CFEngine's data types describe what a variable can contain.
A variable can't be assigned a different type once it's been set.
The commonly used data types are `string`, `slist` (string list), `int`, `real`, and `data`.

#### Diff

A `diff` is a report (originally that generated by the UNIX diff command) that details the differences between two files.
The term is often used as slang meaning a file comparison.

#### Enterprise API

> The Enterprise API is a JSON HTTP REST API, allowing users to access CFEngine's functionality and reporting data programmatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Enterprise APIs are JSON HTTP REST APIs, allowing users to access CFEngine's functionality and reporting data programmatically.
```

Author: We use "The Enterprise API" (singular collective); https://docs.cfengine.com/docs/3.21/api-enterprise-api-ref.html

It can be used to generate reports, query data, create alerts, manage users, etc.

#### Enterprise reporting

CFEngine's reporting system allows you to access information about your hosts as well as the results of your policy in a centralized system.

> On the hub, you have access to the reporting system through the JSON REST API, the Web UI, the SQL database, as well as generated PDF / CSV reports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the hub, you have access to the reporting system through the JSON REST APIs, the Web UI, the SQL database, as well as generated PDF / CSV reports.
```

#### Libraries

A library generally refers to collection of standardized CFEngine code that can be reused in different scenarios and environments.
This might be bundles of promises, or reusable body-parts.

#### Logs

Log files tell you some historic, usually timestamped, information about events which happened in the past.
In CFEngine, there are a few notable log files:

* `/var/logs/CFEngineInstall.log` - Information about the installation, especially useful if installing the package failed.
* `/var/cfengine/outputs/` - Output logs of previous scheduled agent runs (if any).
* `/var/cfengine/httpd/logs/error_log` - Apache errors (Mission Portal / API)

#### Mission Portal (MP)

The name given to the user interface used in commercial CFEngine editions,
where all reports and progress summaries are kept.

#### Namespaces

Namespaces allow you to define new scopes for bundles, variables, and classes.
By using a specific name for the namespace, you can use short and generic names for the identifiers inside of it.

By default, if you don't specify a namespace, you are using the namespace called `default`.

> The CMDB (group data / host specific data in Mission Portal) uses the `cmdb` namespace, unless you specify a namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CMDB (group data / host specific data in Mission Portal) uses the `data` namespace, unless you specify a namespace.
```

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://github.com/cfengine/documentation/assets/202896/e0a2392b-a663-41b1-8515-a6376e1e0496)

Author: Thanks!

Platforms are described using short identifiers, e.g. RH5, REL5, SuSE 11, SLES, etc.

#### Policy server

The special server that others consult for the latest policies is called the *policy server*.

Typically the policy server is set by the bootstrapping process.

#### Policy

A policy is a set of intentions about the system, coded as a list of promises.
A policy is not a standard, but the result of specific organizational management decisions.

#### Promise attributes

As opposed to the promiser string (which is usually the unique identifier of a resource), promise attributes specify the desired specifics for that resource.
A basic example is that if you want to ensure a file has a specific set of permissions, you would make a promise where the promiser string is the filename, and the desired permissions are specified as attributes.

Sometimes referred to as promise constraints.

#### Promise types

Different types of resources you can manage with CFEngine.
Typical examples include files, users, services, packages, etc.
Making promises with these types results in CFEngine checking the state of those resources and making changes on the system if necessary.

> There are also promise types which are not traditional resources on a system, but rather just for managing state within the CFEngine binaries, such as variables, classes, meta, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are also promise types which are not traditional resources on a system, but rather just for managing state within the CFEngine binaries, such as `vars`, `classes`, `meta`, etc.
```

#### Enterprise reporting

CFEngine's reporting system allows you to access information about your hosts and the results of your policy in a centralized system.

> You can access the reporting system through the hubs JSON REST API, the Web UI, the SQL database, and generated PDF / CSV reports.

Reviewer: hub's

They are also convergent, meaning they can only nudge the system closer to a steady state, never destabilize it.
While there are ways a user could override this, it's almost never a good idea to do so.

#### Role based access control (RBAC)

RBAC allows you to control the level of access granted to individuals at a granular level.
Each user can have one or more roles, and each role can grant them access to specific resources as well as actions.

> A flexible RBAC system improves the security of the system, especially when combined with a principle of least privilege approach.

Author: Again, this full stop makes things more clunky, IMO.

The special server that others consult for the latest policies is called the Policy Server.

#### Service Catalogue

A kind of directory of _services_ provided in an environment.
The concept of a service could be anything from a human help desk to a machine-controlled email subsystem.
In the CFEngine Mission Portal, the service catalog (for maintenance) treats promise bundles of promises as low-level maintenance services and relates these to high-level business goals.

#### SOX Compliance

Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance.

> An audited accolade for financial data security required by all companies on the New York stock exchange.

Author: ```suggestion
An audited accolade for financial data security required by all companies on the New York Stock Exchange.
```

The special server that others consult for the latest policies is called the Policy Server.

#### Service Catalogue

A kind of directory of _services_ provided in an environment.
The concept of a service could be anything from a human help desk to a machine controlled email subsystem.
In the CFEngine Mission Portal, the service catalogue (for maintenance) treats promise-bundles of promises as low-level maintenance services, and relates these to high level business goals.

#### SOX Compliance

Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance.

> An audited accolade for financial data security required by all companies on the New York stock exchange.

Author: The `is` change is wrong, but capitalization is right. Will edit.

The special server that others consult for the latest policies is called the Policy Server.

#### Service Catalogue

A kind of directory of _services_ provided in an environment.
The concept of a service could be anything from a human help desk to a machine controlled email subsystem.
In the CFEngine Mission Portal, the service catalogue (for maintenance) treats promise-bundles of promises as low-level maintenance services, and relates these to high level business goals.

#### SOX Compliance

Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance.
An audited accolade for financial data security required by all companies on the New York stock exchange.

#### Standard library

The standard library lives in a `masterfiles/lib` subdirectory.
It's a collection of useful bundles and bodies you can use.

#### Template

> A template is an incomplete piece of CFEngine code, with blanks to fill in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A template usually refers to text which can be expanded based on current CFEngine context. CFEngine has a native template language but generally `mustache`, a logic-less templating language is preferred. Sometimes a template is an incomplete piece of CFEngine code, with blanks to fill in.
```

Author: Okay, added.

It is often a policy fragment that can be re-used in different scenarios.
This is often used interchangeably with the term _library_.

#### Variables

Variables have a name, a type, and a value (and some optional metadata).

> In CFEngine policy language, variables are similar to variables in other programming languages, they can hold strings, lists, omplext data structures, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In CFEngine policy language, variables are similar to variables in other programming languages, they can hold strings, lists, complex data structures, etc.
```

Author: Thanks! :)
